{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 distant events are marked by light and/or  cloud/atmospheric effects. These are obvious changes zvon a distant horizon that can prompt player action. The nature of these effects can designate player or NPC action. We can say that players can use a certain weapon that NPC's cannot and this makes the explsion blue or red instead of yellow/orange. A distinct difference so a player can calculate the risk of approaching. Travel takes time, and we need to add cooldowns for long "hops" so if a player sees another player land and start fighting from a distance, he will not be able to fly away for a common designated period of time \par
\par
cannot proceed with theory until some sort of simple AI battle is demonstrated. the first experiment necessary to conduct will be precision stopping during warps. to deploy a battlegroup to a pinpoint location in space while still staying in a user chosen formation is the objective. in orientation it never strays, but it cannot go the exact distance with older models of the code. \par
\par
what i fantasize about is micromanaging every detail of space engineers planetary interaction automation. A ship knows automatically how to enter orbit, and we can tweak speeds of orbit. It can deploy shuttles to land which deploy smaller equipment which deploy workers. A large scale Russian nested dolls. \par
\par
it is all about the inflection point, in any endeavor. right now I am on the SE server, and seeing planets at a 2M km distance, and they are just barely disercnable from the local star background. we should allow players to "jump" these vast distances for an advantage ( at the expense of a visible trail for all). \par
\par
As of right now - i put myself in a trajectory towards my orbiting planet knowing the range of gravity. I can float quickly to a certain angle that we can define as a minimum requirement for jump eligibijlity. We want G forces to be a huge limiting factor for players, as the average modern citizen would be required to undergo extensive training for a very fast burn of hydrogen and / or oxygen from a liquid state. So in this game, you are safely hidden if you are on foot operating slowly on wheeled vehicles. We are making flight more of an exclusive, game orienting event. This becomes more rare than at the current state of the game. In something like a MoBA, players spend some time "farming" against predicitble hordes of computer controlled waves of attrition damage against the opposing players composition of territory controlling assets (turrets).\par
\par
We issue exit velocity minimum requirements (these are up to the physics engine of the game, which gives an untrue representation of gravity because of the constraints of modern computing hardware), and the atmostphere of the local planet must be clear of the POV of the "jumping" player. Jumping is only defined as a very fast acceleration (100-200 m/s/s ), this "burn" produces a very wide visual signature for its duration, as would naturally happen. There is a coasting period at the behest of the player, but we could issue a minimum rotation period to achieve a similar effect from "the Expanse" television program. \par
\par
The travel time could be between 30-60 seconds, or longer depending on how activities morph. \par
\par
Eventually this jumping pattern will be recognized and can be countered. or planned for. We will make players immune during jumping sessions to represent the "calculations for light speed jump". The physics engine responding to large destructive events in real time without lowering sims peeds is not yet possible. The scene we want to project here is an obvious "shot" towards a certain point, and perhaps have these points affixed at such an angle that land based players watching the engine flare can infer which place the other player went. We can assign cooldowns to these jumping systems and create a PVP opportunity window. If a player wishes to pursue a jumping pattern, they could follow the same point that the other player has chosen. Once players find each other, this extremely fast movement will not be ready for some time, and the jetpack speed can be a base requirement for the combat.\par
\par
 A deorbiting burn could be another minimum requirement for interplanet jumping, and this would create the burning falling object that runs constant in ancient civijlizistion memories. Players on foot on this destination planet would also be given a visible trajectory trail lingering plume to track given time inference. If other players from yet a third planet have decided to join in after seeing the previous 2 jumps had achieved exit velocity burn by the minimum time, we could have  a sort of bonus trajectory shortcut at a point on this "hot traffic" planet that all these players will arrive near. \par
\par
The ultimate scene we are trying to arrange here is the sight of at least 3 players arriving within view of each other on a planet in a 30 second window. Players already present on this planet will have the bonus of surprise since they are not planet hopping loudly. \par
\par
The video with the bird dogs. Each one arrives around the same general area in a line focused on a single point. The video is only a few seconds long, so the question is how they spread once they know the point will remain static for a general width of time. The mother comes in, twice their combined mass, as the final member of the group. This translates into fleet arrival. There could be an expected rate and pieces can be seen coming for their 10-30 second braking burn, depending on their size and value. In  a rock paper scissors format, a large slow bright titan coudl be counterd by relatively smaller faster frigates and their accompanying small craft. At first this will be represented in groups of 3, but each group has fewer pieces associated. Example 10 fighters translates 3 cruisers translates to 1 titan. It does not have to be set in stone, but players should be able to make strategic decisions. \par
\par
We can restrict player craft to a certain size for dogfighting, which the game will revolve around. These "commander craft" have powerful anti-captial ship abilities that should be contested. Or rather, we could say that only other capital ships can counter another, but players are used to calling in fleets according to certain situations. This could mean giving away visual location data \par
\par
\par
Since modern computing power cannot yet support VRage on a galactic scale (quantum will be exponential computing improvement?), we can create an artificial limitiation  where we cannot yet leave the gravity well of the Sun. Players can observe an orbit of valuable asteroids, which can be our excuse for organizing weekly events, where there is a window for a large value targets and players compete over it. The window may not be announced, and we could have a true physics engine rendering orbits of objects and use that to discern points of interest around the terrestrial constellation near where players normally play on the server.\par
\par
Mining these sorts of asteroids will be worth the risk, as we can incentivize participation somehow since the game can quickly replace destroyed craft. But the effects of this mined material will be more interesting to monitor after the mining window has passed. Economic effects will reverberate throughout the server, as the player(s) who successfully got a piece of this valuable asteroid will have either more liquidity, or more ability, depending on how their tech tree has evolved. We want to allow player trading to grant them "several lives" in a sense when assaulting certain positions that may require multiple fleet waves. The player who chooses to invest in technology, however, would eventually find uses for the rare asteroid material that gives them a unique advantage that cannot be purchased with liquidity.\par
\par
liquidity is convienence. If a player has their own production with fully developed supply chains, they will only need to orchestrate their assets to achieve a certain end. We want the economically entrenched, non violent player to be the "high level" player. Starting over involves dropping in, like a battle royale, and we want this to be a frequent occurence. NPC factories and shipping cycles will be inefficient but a part of the economy nonetheless. This is how players can come to build a higher net worth than the existing AI players, though these ideally will adapt to conditions and find a smaller, niche market that will be beneficial to previously rival players. \par
\par
We want there to be sufficient spacing between player locations where players can choose to remain and build without attracting attention ( though they can still be found by players walking or driving - forests will be popular places to build because of aerial imaging discretion.\par
\par
Allow player to interfere with infrastructure, but bounty system and automatic rebuild can insure against griefing and discourage destruction. A security system involves knowing when a player causes damage to any asset. This is similar to Eve, but players are generally not attacked until they provoke an operational system. Attacking wreckage will have to be ruled out, as these grids are just balanced amounts of fragments left behind after battles, evidence that is left out for set timers because we have to suppress the amount of grids in order to promote sim speed. \par
\par
The biggest sim speed drops will occur when there are many players fighting. We are going to automate mining and building in such a way as to ensure that these construction rendering events are not occuring at the same time as expected player combat sessions. \par
\par
First person element is going to be  a primary gameplay area. CSGO is the classical, refined, visceral ebb and flow of physical bodies pushing strategic areas across an acre span. While in SE there are many elements at play, flying around will be reserved for certain \par
\par
 sound is one of the most important features of any game to me. atmospheric ship travel and its audible ripple effect will be an important game mechanic. a ship rumbling in the distance can pull agro and its position triangulated. perhaps we can even factor in speed of sound lag effects. Ships can be assumed to be soundproofed, and when inside the outside sound can be isolated, although engine power implies a low frequency rumble.\par
\par
The distant crackling of the air during a ships high energy entrance or exit can be a prompt for action. A close hovering ship will generate extremely high decibels  (we can eventually add a silent  fictional tech for late game advanced players). \par
\par
Players are given visual cues and not HUD signals when they are in atmostphere. It is only in the cockpit of a vehicle that they can see more distant details. Being on foot is the only way to "command" other grids, where we can add hotkeys that send signals to craft\par
\par
\par
Saw a video today where a meteor entered the atmostphere and completely lit up the night sky like day for a few seconds. I have always thought there should be special conditions in areas where there is no light, to incentivize dangerous yet lucrative combat. Perhaps entering the atmosphere on the dark side of a planet will pull more agro in this way, by easily revealing location. But darkness also can grant camoflauge for slower moving wheeled vehicles \par
\par
A flotilla launching far, far away has a linear trajectory that is guaranteed according to a visual cue. We can assign certain colors of the planet sized flare that emerges from a fast traveling ship. Each color can represent a "force applied" and we can introduce a mini-game aspects where players can attempt to interdict but they must understand timing and be able to aim within a certain window (the tolerance of which we can define dynamically, a cooldown that keeps players from constantly interdicting everyone. Failed interdiction attempts can result in an unfavorable position that must be traveled from, after the pursued player has had plenty of time to reset discreetly. This produces two scenarios - bystanding silent players can notice an interdict attempt and understand that the pirate player may miss the target therefore can position themselves to interdict the interdictor with greater ease than the first attempt. The second scenario - the pursued player can know that they are being followed and take up a discreet position because their landing spot may be known.\par
\par
Players may produce a visual signature when they enter planets. This means that there is always a visual signature when any player decides to fast travel - but the exit point in a vaccuum implies no visual landing cue. This complies with the mini-game concept mentioned above, where players can be pursued but only if seen "initiated jump sequence" across a certain window. \par
\par
\par
Impacts and munitions detonation that would normally cause SIM drop can be replaced with computationally cheaper smoke/fire rendering, which disguises the initial impact. Here, we can calculate a "chunk" of the grid to be removed, and create the damage slowly while the visual effect covers up this slow rendering process. Smaller chunks of this grid section can be ejected at predetermined trajectories, causing them to never land simultaneously. This adds to the large scale explosion effect, and these smaller pieces can cause dust clouds to pepper up around ground zero over the duration of the event (10-30 seconds of falling material, 5 minutes of dust settling). \par
\par
\par
any kind of traffic or queuing system could be avoided   or more quickly processed somehow, but we want this to be a problem that naturally occurs as activity builds up around a certain area. frustrated players could solve the problem by pooling their money together and servicing the traffic somehow, while turning a profit\par
}
 